So, welcome to
SuggestProjectilVelocity()! In this video we're going to take a closer look
at how projectile flight works, and by the end of it, you will have a modification
to you tank, where you actually have a launch speed parameter that will be passed
all the way from the Tank down to the Aiming Component, and then, ultimately printed
out on the console. We will also be taking a look, and your homework will
be to look carefully at this very useful method Unreal provides called Suggest
ProjectileVelocity(). So let's take a look at how this works!
So, let's talk about how we're actually going to get our projectile to its destination.
What we need to do now is to start thinking about having this barrel move itself
into the correct position, to end up hitting the world space
aim, if possible. It may not be possible, of course, like it probably isn't possible.
In this case, hitting the top of that hill might be unreasonable but I could certainly hit this tank, it depends on
the launch speed. So let's talk about launch speed and launch velocity, make sure we understand that and
then go from there. Just stop it running. I've got a couple of slides for you! OK,
so let's talk about the difference between projectile speed and velocity! Sorry to those physics
nuts out there who already know this but for everybody else, I think it's important. So, if that vector
is some three dimensional vector, which is the launch velocity, basically
it's the direction of the barrel. If it has a length of 5, that means our launch speed
is 5. The Velocity Vector
has a direction, which is the direction of the barrel, and a magnitude
which is it's length, which tells you how fast you're launching it. Now 5 is a very slow launch; we're not going to
be launching our projectile at 5 centimeters a second, it will kind of just flop out of the end of the barrel,
but I just want to do it so this thing is vaguely to scale.
So if that's the LaunchVelocity Vector, then there's another vector called the LaunchDirection
Vector and it's a unit vector, which means it always has a length of 1 and that's
what we're really interested in. We need a Launch Direction Vector to know the direction
that we want to point our barrel in. We don't actually care,
when we're pointing the barrel, who fast the projectile is going to launch. We have to know how fast
it's going to launch to do the calculation. But all we need to actually point the barrel is just a
360 degree location, somewhere on the surface of a sphere and that
thing has a length of 1, that's called a Unit Vector. And so,
the difference between those or the divider between those, 5 over 1, is 5. So the LaunchSpeed
is 5, in this case. If the LaunchSpeed was 10,000, then the LaunchVelocity Vector would be
10,000 times longer than the Direction Vector. It's called a Unit Vector, simple as that.
Hopefully that makes sense, I wouldn't  worry about it too much; it'll just give you a bit of background for when
we actually use the methods. So, there are two projectile arcs, which
is kind of fun. If you launch something with a given LaunchVelocity, i.e.
that same green arrow, then you fire it, off it goes
along a parabolic path... OK, they'er not quite parabolic, as I said, but you get the idea. Then,
it'll hit something in the distance, hopefully another tank if you're lucky. But there's also
another angle that you can fire it at, for the same Launch
Speed. So, a LaunchVelocity
Vector that is in a different direction, it's going to
be in the same left and right plane but it's going to be up,
it's going to be a higher toss a higher lob, if you like, and
it's going to have the same length. Both those green arrows are the same length. Well, they may not look it
but they are. And what would happen then is, you'd end up
in the same place. There's always two solutions to how you get to that other
tank with your projectile. You either go by the high arc or the low arc, and that'll
come up in our method as an option as to which we choose. We're going to choose the low arc.
The reason is it's quicker, the projectile will get there much quicker along the low arc. Let's take a look,
very briefly, at Wikipedia's page. This is all in the notes, but you can look at Trajectory
of a Projectile. So, if we go there, scroll down to
this bit, Conditions at the final position, or you can just click here.
Ah, conditions of the final position... Where is that? I can't see it!
Ah there! OK, then you've got this diagram, and this will give you an example. Let's
focus on trying to hit something that's 5 meters away, which is this bit here. And what that's
saying is you can either lob it at 15 degrees, it will get to 5 meters
and it will only spend 1/2 a second in flight, or you could lob it at
75 degrees. It would get to the same distance coming down
much more sharply but it would take 1.93 seconds, nearly 4 times as long
long in the air, much easier for the other tank to get out of the way, etc. So, you're much better off with using
the low arc in these cases. OK, so you can read more about that
if you want to, just bear in mind that there are two arcs.
So, let's see how this means that we actually use the method in question.
The method we're going to look at is SuggestProjectileVelocity(). I'm not just
going to leave you to it unless you're really keen, but I'm just going to set you up,
before we go ahead with that. So, where we going to set all this stuff? Well there's
lots of ways of doing this, but what I'm going to do is suggest that on the tank we have
ourselves a variable, which is a firing category variable, so
it comes in here firing and it lets us set the launch speed. So, if you want a micro-
challenge, setup a float called launch speed, put it in the firing category, make it available on the tank
blueprint. And I'm just going to go ahead and do that now. It's not
that complicated, hopefully. So, in order for it to be visible, it needs to be a UPROPERTY.
It needs to be (EditAnywhere, that's the
annotation we need. The Category = Firing)
just to group things together nicely. Then, it's going to be a float because it's not whole numbers.
LaunchSpeed because the speed is just a scaler, it doesn't have a
direction, and I'm going to say 10,000 and this is a
sensible starting value,  "starting
value". In fact, let's use 100,000. I'm just trying to guess here, but we'll try and pick something
as a vaguely sensible starting value of 100
or is this 1,000 meters per second, because it's in centimeters a second.
So there you go, strip off the centimeters, you get 1,000 meters a second. That's a few thousand
mile an hour. Maybe 3,000 mile an hour? That's probably about right, it's a super sonic
tank shells going like billio, it's probably not far off. But this is just a sensible
default, and it'll of course be overridable in Blueprint. So there you go, we have a
launch speed! Now, when the Tank.cpp calls
the AimAt method, let's give ourselves some more space. Previously
it's only said AimAt a particular location, but you can't solve that, you actually need
to know the LaunchSpeed. It's no good trying to get to a particular location without
knowing the speed, because there's a whole host of combinations of speeds and
barrel angles that will get you to the other tank. So, from the outside of the tank, in
terms of the tank's public interface, it's fine that we just say to
the tank hey, aim at this thing! It's not my business, from the outside of the tank,
what combination of projectile velocity and barrel angle you use,
alright, but from inside the tank it's going to have a notion of LaunchSpeed and it's going to pass
that notion of LaunchSpeed down to it's TankAimingComponent. So that's what
I'm doing there, I've made a private member called that, passed it down. Let's just compile
and make sure that's visible on the blueprint, as we'd expect it to. What I'm hoping will
happen is, on the Tank_BP here in the right-hand side under details, when this
compilation finishes a section should pop in called firing, and
then, it'll have a LaunchSpeed and it'll say 10,000. If I do it right What have I done?
"function does not take two arguments". OK, so what I've done, of course,
is I've sent in a second argument here, which is why it was complaining, but I haven't
modified the TankAimingComponent yet. So let's just do that, that's going to be
quite simple. In the TankAimingComponent's AimAt method, let's take in
a float called LaunchSpeed, because we're going to need
to know that. And then in the implementation of it
let's just go float LaunchSpeed). And while we're here, I'm going to get rid of
all this stuff, all this logging, and I'm just going to say ("Firing at
%f", because we've got a float directly.
And then, all this rubbish can go away and we an just say LaunchSpeed.
OK, so this will prove that this LaunchSpeed has made it all the way through
to the component. Let's try now!
Hopefully that all made sense. Relatively simple, I'm just setting a variable on the tank,
delegating it down to the TankAimingComponent, which is in turn printing it out.
So, we were saying that hopefully a firing section will appear in the
Details tab of the Tank. It just did, it has a Launch Speed of 10,000!
100,000 rather Let's play! You see it firing at 100,000! Now let's go
ahead to the tank blueprint and change that to say 4,000
and play. We have a crash. Now I
think that, that crash is just Unreal being awkward, to be honest. I can't see
any reason, we haven't used unprotected pointers or anything like that.
So, let's just grin and bear it and say darn Unreal you
crashed, but at least you're powerful, I kind of forgive you. Ah, let's go to 4,000,
Save, Compile, run again. And
there you go, the 4,000 is going through, so the blueprint value is overriding as we'd expect
the C++ value. I have not idea what the sensible default is, so
what we should do at this stage in our code is say to ourselves, admit that we no
idea and say TODO.
Instead of saying that, "Sensible starting value", we say "// TODO
find sensible default". We have no idea until we start
firing the projectiles whether this is reasonable, even in the right ball park. So we need to
later find a sensible default, then leave it to the designer to tweak that value over
here. OK, enough said on that bit! So we are
pretty much ready to go on this. Let's just continue to build
up the awareness of this method, and then I think we will leave the actual
writing of this to the next lecture, because it's going to be too long
otherwise. So, let's just start looking at this SuggestProjectileVelocity
method. There's two ways to get a view on this. One is to look at the
C++ documentation, which you can just do a Google search for, SuggestProjectile
Velocity. And you get two answers! One is
you'll see this one here, and if you go to that one, the one that doesn't
say UGamePlayStatics, etc. then you'll find it's talking about the
blueprint probably. Here you go! It's actually got much more interesting and useful information
about what all these parameters do, so do have a look at those. In fact, that's going to be your
homework before the next video, is to go and read about this. But also,
keep a close eye on, pretty much keep them next to each other like this. Keep
a close eye on the other documentation you'll find in Google, which is
where it actually tells you about the C+ method, because you'll find that
you don't, for example, have a WorldContextObject on the blueprint. You
do have a StartLocation. You do have an EndLocation. It doesn't
output at TossVelocity in the same way. You see the blueprint's a little bit difficult,
different rather. It does have an OverrideGravity, etc. and there's more
things, a few more in here. So basically, make sure that
you've got some idea what this guy does. It's designed for
First Person Shooters for giving affordances, we call it, when you say throw
a grenade into the distance. It's like a grenade landing marker, that's the point of view
using this. It's working out where your grenade would land if you fire. Now, and that's why they use the word
Toss because you toss grenades. Well, we don't really toss tank shells, that sounds a bit
wet, we fire them with gusto! So, we're going to
call this LaunchSpeed but you get the idea. So, that's your homework. I want
you to get to these two documents, by searching Google
as I just did for SuggestProjectileVelocity, all one word.
Look at these two results, the GameplayStatics and the other one which I have on the screen now.
Make sure you've got some idea of how that works. Recap what I showed you back here,
with regards to these arcs and the velocities, and just mentally prepare
yourself that you understand what we're trying to do here. One gotcha is understand
that TossVelocity is an out parameter
and that it's a bit odd to give us the velocity out. I'd rather it give
you the direction out because the size of this TossVelocity is constrained by the
TossSpeed. So actually, the only information coming out of Toss
Velocity is the direction of it, if that makes sense, because it's always
going to have a length of TossSpeed but
we can deal with that ourselves. So, make sure all of what I've just said makes sense, and I will
see you in the next video, where we'll actually use this method in anger
or joy! Anyway, see you there!